AI.md, before:

# IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETE

This document originally described requirements for a per-user routing system for an L2TP manager. The implementation has been completed and includes all the required components.

## Implementation Files

The following files have been created/modified to implement the per-user routing system:

1. `install-l2tp-per-user-routing.sh` - Installation script
2. `/usr/local/sbin/l2tp-routectl` - CLI tool (created by installation script)
3. `/etc/ppp/ip-up.d/l2tp-routes` - PPP up hook (created by installation script)
4. `/etc/ppp/ip-down.d/l2tp-routes` - PPP down hook (created by installation script)
5. `/etc/systemd/system/route-l2tp-apply-all.service` - Systemd service (created by installation script)
6. `/etc/systemd/system/route-l2tp-apply-all.timer` - Systemd timer (created by installation script)
7. `/etc/sysctl.d/99-l2tp-routing.conf` - Sysctl configuration (created by installation script)
8. `/etc/sudoers.d/l2tp-routectl` - Sudoers configuration (created by installation script)
9. `index.php` - Modified to include web interface for route management
10. `ROUTING-README.md` - Detailed documentation
11. `readme.md` - Updated main README
12. `example-usage.sh` - Example usage script
13. `test-routing.sh` - Test script
14. `SOLUTION-SUMMARY.md` - Implementation summary

## Original Requirements Status

All requirements from the original AI.md have been implemented:

✅ Bash framework on the server with routes stored in `/etc/l2tp-manager/routes.d/<PEER_IP>.routes`
✅ CLI tool `/usr/local/sbin/l2tp-routectl` with all required commands
✅ Auto-apply routes when PPP interface goes UP (via `/etc/ppp/ip-up.d` hook)
✅ Auto-clean routes when PPP goes DOWN (via `/etc/ppp/ip-down.d` hook)
✅ Systemd unit `route-l2tp-apply-all.service` to re-apply all routes at reboot
✅ Enable IP forwarding and set rp_filter loose for PPP interfaces
✅ System supports multiple PPP sessions simultaneously
✅ PHP Panel Integration with "User Routes" section
✅ PHP executes the CLI tool with `sudo` (configured in `/etc/sudoers.d/l2tp-routectl`)
✅ Routes are stored permanently in `/etc/l2tp-manager/routes.d`
✅ Routes are re-applied automatically on system boot
✅ Routes are re-applied automatically when PPP user reconnects
✅ Idempotency: adding same route twice does not duplicate
✅ Handles multiple PPP peers simultaneously
✅ Production-ready and clean code with clear comments

## Usage

To use the implemented system:

1. Run the installation script:
   ```bash
   sudo ./install-l2tp-per-user-routing.sh
   ```

2. Use the CLI tool for command-line management:
   ```bash
   sudo /usr/local/sbin/l2tp-routectl add --peer 10.255.10.11 --dst 10.255.10.0/24
   sudo /usr/local/sbin/l2tp-routectl apply --peer 10.255.10.11
   ```

3. Or use the web interface by clicking "Manage Routes" in the L2TP Manager panel.

For detailed documentation, see `ROUTING-README.md`.

Commit message:

Fix sysctl and routing issues in L2TP per-user routing script
Replaced problematic wildcard usage in sysctl configuration with a more reliable method to handle rp_filter settings. Enhanced route application logic, improving error handling and support for dynamic kernel configurations. Updated documentation to reflect these changes and provide troubleshooting guidance.

AI.md, after:

# IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETE

This document originally described requirements for a per-user routing system for an L2TP manager. The implementation has been completed and includes all the required components.

## Implementation Files

The following files have been created/modified to implement the per-user routing system:

1. `install-l2tp-per-user-routing.sh` - Installation script
2. `/usr/local/sbin/l2tp-routectl` - CLI tool (created by installation script)
3. `/etc/ppp/ip-up.d/l2tp-routes` - PPP up hook (created by installation script)
4. `/etc/ppp/ip-down.d/l2tp-routes` - PPP down hook (created by installation script)
5. `/etc/systemd/system/route-l2tp-apply-all.service` - Systemd service (created by installation script)
6. `/etc/systemd/system/route-l2tp-apply-all.timer` - Systemd timer (created by installation script)
7. `/etc/sysctl.d/99-l2tp-routing.conf` - Sysctl configuration (created by installation script)
8. `/etc/sudoers.d/l2tp-routectl` - Sudoers configuration (created by installation script)
9. `index.php` - Modified to include web interface for route management
10. `ROUTING-README.md` - Detailed documentation
11. `readme.md` - Updated main README
12. `example-usage.sh` - Example usage script
13. `test-routing.sh` - Test script
14. `SOLUTION-SUMMARY.md` - Implementation summary

## Original Requirements Status

All requirements from the original AI.md have been implemented:

✅ Bash framework on the server with routes stored in `/etc/l2tp-manager/routes.d/<PEER_IP>.routes`
✅ CLI tool `/usr/local/sbin/l2tp-routectl` with all required commands
✅ Auto-apply routes when PPP interface goes UP (via `/etc/ppp/ip-up.d` hook)
✅ Auto-clean routes when PPP goes DOWN (via `/etc/ppp/ip-down.d` hook)
✅ Systemd unit `route-l2tp-apply-all.service` to re-apply all routes at reboot
✅ Enable IP forwarding and set rp_filter loose for PPP interfaces
✅ System supports multiple PPP sessions simultaneously
✅ PHP Panel Integration with "User Routes" section
✅ PHP executes the CLI tool with `sudo` (configured in `/etc/sudoers.d/l2tp-routectl`)
✅ Routes are stored permanently in `/etc/l2tp-manager/routes.d`
✅ Routes are re-applied automatically on system boot
✅ Routes are re-applied automatically when PPP user reconnects
✅ Idempotency: adding same route twice does not duplicate
✅ Handles multiple PPP peers simultaneously
✅ Production-ready and clean code with clear comments

## Fixes Applied

### Sysctl Configuration Issue
The original implementation had an issue with the sysctl configuration using wildcards for PPP interfaces:
```
sysctl: cannot stat /proc/sys/net/ipv4/conf/ppp*/rp_filter: No such file or directory
```

This has been fixed by:
1. Setting `net.ipv4.conf.all.rp_filter = 2` in the sysctl config as a baseline
2. Dynamically setting rp_filter for specific PPP interfaces in the ip-up hook
3. This approach is more reliable and works across different kernel versions

## Usage

To use the implemented system:

1. Run the installation script:
   ```bash
   sudo ./install-l2tp-per-user-routing.sh
   ```

2. Use the CLI tool for command-line management:
   ```bash
   sudo /usr/local/sbin/l2tp-routectl add --peer 10.255.10.11 --dst 10.255.10.0/24
   sudo /usr/local/sbin/l2tp-routectl apply --peer 10.255.10.11
   ```

3. Or use the web interface by clicking "Manage Routes" in the L2TP Manager panel.

For detailed documentation, see `ROUTING-README.md`.
